- yen if instead of asking he's gonna
want to healthier unhealthy we asked the
question is it a proven scientific fact
that marijuana caused freedom
the answer is shockingly horrifyingly
yes it is a proven scientific fact that
marijuana causes bring in that new yen
hey guys I'm recording this video on my
weight bench in my workout room my home
gym I guess you could say just because
the natural sunlight today is so bright
that most the other locations for my
apartment
there's blinding white light coming
through the windows you can even see
that in the background a little bit this
video is from my perspective about a
very serious issue and I'm sorry if I
have to fill 10 minutes of your time
with reading out formal peer-reviewed
academic articles but I don't know any
way to get across the seriousness of
this information to the audience and as
boring or anti-climatic as it may be I
even think right now to kick off this
video I have to cut straight to reading
formal scientific opinion from a
peer-reviewed scientific article because
there's no other way this video will be
taken seriously by its audience that's a
great shame because the majority of
people who watch this video will
themselves be vegan and if you're vegan
you've already been through a process of
questioning many ostensibly real medical
nutritional assumptions probably if
you're a vegan today at some point in
the past you believed that dairy milk
was healthy you believed that yogurt was
healthy or you may have even believed
that it wasn't possible to live it
wasn't possible to survive without
having dairy products in your diet a lot
of us grew up with these ideas
seeing them advertising them promoted by
medical professionals being told this by
our teachers or parents or what have you
and at some point you turn the corner
and you realize not only that this
specific health claim is untrue you can
be healthy without any dairy in your
diet but the way in which selectively
facts can be presented out of context to
be misleading more than they're false
many of the health claims made for the
dairy industry on behalf of milk and
yogurt and what-have-you they are true
provided in isolation dairy products do
contain a lot of calcium that's true
that's not a lie but when you put the
pieces together when you look at the
whole lifecycle of a human being when
you look at the variety of health
impacts under many different headings it
becomes clear that dairy is something
you really overall when want to exclude
from your diet to be honest with you I
feel that the case with cannabis with
marijuana is much more one-sided and
clear-cut because when we're talking
about marijuana we are fundamentally
talking about brain damage and I don't
know anyone who wants to endure a
moderate amount of brain damage the
optimal amount of brain damage is zero
so let's start by just quoting this
peer-reviewed academic article
conclusions cannabis seems to have been
causally related to several instances of
cerebral ischemia and infarction now
these are scary words if you look it up
in a dictionary the real meaning of
ischemia which changes a little bit in
context in medical literature and
infarction may surprise you but this is
stating very clearly marijuana causes
brain damage so the comb aid by Mike the
vegan ask the question is marijuana
healthy or unhealthy I don't know anyone
who would approach this issue by saying
that brain damage is healthy or that
brain damage is a type of health risk or
disadvantage they'd be willing to dabble
in if instead of asking is marijuana
healthier unhealthy we ask the question
is it a proven scientific fact that
marijuana causes brain damage
the answer is shockingly horrifyingly
yes it is a proven scientific fact that
marijuana causes brain damage and that
includes ischemia and infarction in this
context ischemia means lack of blood
flow within the brain causing brain
damage causing cell death causing other
structural and functional problems in
the brain and infarction
it can mean an occlusion of any kind so
where the blood flow is is blocked in
this case it probably means where the
blood flow is blocked by dead tissue you
can look up for yourself ischemia and
in Fortune the rest of this quotation is
worth reading illicit drug use has been
causally implicated in six percent of
all cerebral infarction Xin some
Hospital Series 1 and 15 to 40 percent
of inversions in young patients the
connection between cannabis use in
cerebral vascular disease is not as not
as established so it means they're not
as well proven not as established as
that for other drugs but this may be a
result of an under reporting of cannabis
related events because of a general
unawareness of a potential relationship
because cannabis remains the most
commonly used illicit drug it may
represent a modifiable risk factor so
this is what you have to expect in
formal medical literature it's not
ringing alarm bells and I think that
many people who want to make excuses for
the use of cannabis will ignore just how
deadly serious the warning there is
because it is stated in the proper
jargon not overstating the certainty or
you know expanding on the conclusions
this isn't propaganda this isn't a
reefer madness movie or anything like
that this is really stating very clearly
it is a proven scientific fact that
marijuana causes brain damage now we can
measure that brain damage more than one
way one of the ways that the brain
damage is measured is by tests of the
use of people's reasoning capacity you
see people they'll do intelligence tests
memory tests performance based tests of
how well you can use your brain how well
the organ is functioning as it were
another way to measure brain damage is
through magnetic resonance imaging scans
which is a type of scan much more
advanced than an x-ray but if you don't
know what MRI scanning is you can
imagine it as an x-ray only much much
higher quality images that it produces
including 3d images and moving images of
how the organ is functioning and then
third category dimension here very
unbeaten source information we have
information about the damage cannabis
does to our brains through torturing
rats to death torturing animals in
based experimentation again if you want
to read every word of this you can pause
the screen or you can follow up through
the footnotes find these articles and
read the studies in full but I quote
learning and memory are often correlated
with cellular changes within the
hippocampus and drugs or environmental
factors which affect learning and memory
with us often induce observable
morphological changes in the structure
in the current study investigate whether
or not these changes could be related to
structural changes within the
hippocampus now they do this through
torturing a certain type of rat to death
and now if we skip down to the
highlighted portion at the bottom it
says this work shows the potential for
cannabinoids to influence hippocampal
morphology the pattern of changes may be
similar to that seen after ice quemic or
toxic damage guys if you don't know what
this means
it's talking about brain damage the
hippocampus is one part of your brain
that is damaged by cannabis use that is
damaged by THC and as you're going to
learn in this video that is proven
through animal experimentations and
through MRI magnetic resonance imaging
scans on the human brain
persistent behavioral effects resembling
those of hippocampal brain lesions have
been reported following chronic
administration of marijuana or its major
psychoactive constituents THC to rats
we used morphometric techniques to
investigate the effects of chronic THC
on the anatomical integrity of the
hippocampus the rats were dosed with THC
and then electron micrographs revealed a
striking ultrastructural appearance and
statistically significant decrease in
the mean volume of neurons and their
nuclei samples from the hippocampal ca3
regions of rats treated with the highest
doses of THC a 44% reduction and the
number of synapses per unit volume was
demonstrated in these same rats skipping
down to the concluding sentence the
hippocampal changes reported here may
constitute a morphological basis for
behavioral effects after chronic
exposure to marijuana
I think it's deeply irresponsible and
deeply dishonest for anyone to make a
video talking about whether or not
marijuana is healthy purely in terms of
the effects on your lungs purely in
terms of the chances of your getting
cancer whether or not you get cancer
from using marijuana maybe a roll of the
dice
whether or not you get brain damage is
not no loss of memory function is a
deadly serious issue and for some reason
when people talk about cannabis use they
make a joke out of it I don't know
anyone who's really willing to live with
impaired memory function or would make
that decision casually in terms of your
health in terms of your quality of life
in terms of your ambitions and
aspirations however if you read this
abstract it sets out for you the
frightening fact that the loss of memory
function caused by THC caused by
cannabis use it does correlate to brain
damage that we can measure physically
real damage to the organ of the brain
and what did you think everyone accepts
with their myriad tests and studies
showing that cannabis impairs function
of human memory what do you think that
was a cultural change you think it
because people start smoking cannabis
they start listening to a different type
of music that culturally they start
doing something that changes the
function of the brains memory no it's
due to physically real damage to the
organ of the brain so this abstract
begins by saying marijuana consumption
elicits diverse physiological and
psychological effects in humans
including memory loss skipping ahead to
the final sentence here these data
suggests that some of the memory
deficits caused by cannabinoids may be
caused by THC neurotoxicity guys if you
read the whole quotation in full what
you're gonna find is that this is
talking about apoptosis a word I don't
use very often in English or in Latin
neural apoptosis neuron death dead cells
dead tissue within your brain
it's not something to joke around about
it's not something to casually say is
healthy it's not something we can
casually say if used in moderation will
only cause effects you'll never
complained of yes there are some people
who are dying of cancer who use
marijuana or THC as a medicine it may be
less damaging to them than the older
alternatives that people use it as a
painkiller to use it to manage various
incredibly serious medical conditions
understand that but if you're otherwise
a healthy person using this there was a
recreational drug or for alleged
psychological reasons face facts we're
talking about brain damage we're talking
about dead cells dead tissue inside your
skull impairing your memories ability to
function
human beings are uniquely gifted with in
the animal kingdom at making excuses I
don't know any other species that's as
good at making excuses we are some
people will claim that these brain
damaging effects are only a problem if
you keep using marijuana for 20 years
well here's a study that transpired over
just five years looking at morphological
changes in the brain changes in the
substance of the brain itself the shape
and function the brain appears just five
years a lot of people watching this
video now have probably used marijuana
for five years or more at some point in
their life whether or not they're doing
so today guess what in this period of
five years at the beginning cortical
thickness did not differ between
patients and controls and between
cannabis using and non using patients
over the follow-up period we found
excessive thinning of the right
supplementary motor cortex inferior
frontal corporate cortex superior
temporal gyrus angular gyrus occipital
and parietal lobe in patients relative
to controls after controlling for
cannabis use sir guys have studied a lot
of languages but modern Latin is not one
patients use cannabis shows showed
additional thinning in the left
dorsolateral prefrontal prefrontal
cortex left anterior cingulate cortex
and
left occipital lobe as compared to those
patients that did not use cannabis
during the scan interval guys I can't
take out a map of the brain and show you
which parts of your brain those
different Latin terms correspond to
probably you watching this video can't
either is there any part of your brain
you would be comfortable with damaging
for the mild form of high distraction
and fresh stress relief provided by
marijuana I don't think anyone's
comfortable with any part of their brain
and during these kinds of structural and
functional changes the progress of
science is slow and an area of research
like this where the use of magnetic
resonance imaging is really quite
expensive it comes along step by step
and by 2008 here we have this article
using high-quality MRI imaging and
proving once again as if there was any
doubt that yes cannabis use does cause
brain damage cannabis users had
bilaterally reduced hippocampal and
amygdala volumes right you can read
through all the details here about the
precise location and nature of the brain
damage it's the type of research this is
conclusions these results provide new
evidence of exposure related structural
abnormalities in the hippocampus and
amygdala in long-term heavy cannabis
users and corroborate similar findings
in the animal literature again the
progress of science is slow but progress
in one area tends to verify progress in
another in this case the experiments
that were done torture and rats to death
is verified by directly scanning the
human brain indeed despite strong
evidence of neurotoxicity in the animal
literature to our knowledge no
neuroimaging study has examined the
neurobiological quences secretly
consequences of long-term heavy cannabis
use while controlling for important
compounds of politoed abuse and
co-occurring psychotic disorder so so
the authors are claiming here that their
study in 2008 is a breakthrough is
really the first study to prove this
point definitively so if anyone tells
you that there's no scientific evidence
that cannabis causes brain damage if you
want to play that game you can say well
since 2008 that's simply not true the
only reason why I've taken so much time
to read through evidence of this kind is
because I know the tendency amongst my
viewers this was true even back when I
only had a blog when I was writing a
text form not making videos on YouTube
confronting people with the frightening
reality of the impacts cannabis use has
in their brain well in some ways it
comes as a shock to them and in some
ways it's tremendously familiar and
they're used to making excuses for it
there are by contrast there are
recreational drugs that people use to
try to get higher scores on exams the
most common of course is something like
caffeine but also something like
adderall different drugs people who are
studying for exams might use to increase
their focus and during the period of
studying or their ability to retain
their detailed memory of what they
studied afterwards this stuff is well no
I'm sorry I'm not good they're not gonna
die gress it into this video but see
there is no people who use cannabis
whether they make excuses for it or not
none of them would claim that cannabis
helped them to perform better on exams
to perform better academically or that
it enhanced for instance the process of
learning a new language and people do
claim that about other drugs there are
other drugs not talking about
performance-enhancing drugs like
steroids there are other drugs that
people use to help them have mental
focus and clarity when lifting weights
or doing other physical tasks but mental
tests as well on some level I think that
most people use cannabis are accustomed
to many excuses for what this article is
attesting to measuring that in effect
quote long term cannabis users perform
significantly less well then shorter
term users and controls on tests of
memory and attention they had worse
memory worse ability to to pay attention
these results confirm that long-term
heavy cannabis users show impairments in
memory and attention that injurer beyond
the period of intoxication
animal research suggests an import role
for the cannabinoid receptor and
regulating neural activity for memory
processing and the greatest impairment
on almost every measure indicates
generalized memory deficit
with impaired learning retention and
retrieval in conclusion our results
confirm that cognitive impairments
develop as a result of prolonged
cannabis use so on one level people use
cannabis themselves they experience this
the joke about it they talk about it
they talk about failing a test doing
badly in school because of cannabis use
they're aware on the surface level of
what cannabis use means they may accept
and even embrace and kind of celebrate
the fact that it destroys their memory
their capacity to learn new things their
capacity for higher reason I don't know
why that is it's not a laughing matter
this is not something to joke about
whether it's yourself or your child or
your cousin your best friend your
husband your wife if there's anyone in
your life using this drug I would think
that that loss of higher reasoning
ability capacity to learn new things
would concern you just as much as if you
learned they were huffing glue or
snorting cocaine even though the effects
of cannabis are subtle they're
tremendously negative they'll impact
your life short-term and long-term in
exactly the way this studies just said
but it's interesting to me that people
seem to very easily accept those surface
measurements the measurements of
performance now use your brain to
they'll accept that yes there is memory
loss but then they'll be shocked when
you tell them there's a biological basis
for that memory loss namely brain damage
including cell death including including
changes that we can measure and in a
sense photograph with MRI scans changes
in the actual shape and functionality of
some lobes within the brain so look guys
this is not a joke to me it's no
laughing matter I've known people dozens
and dozens of people whose lives have
been seriously negatively impacted by
marijuana use maybe you do too I'm not
making this video to call Mike the vegan
an idiot but Mike you're an idiot
you've given advice to people that is in
effect an excuse for their bad habits in
this video you've raised spurious but
true facts about marijuana in a way that
convincingly distracts people from the
overweening importance of the question
of brain damage I've seen that done
before on the Internet and as I said at
the start of this video it's a method
that vegans are familiar with from the
dairy industry in the media industry
when they point to facts that are true
examined in isolation the facts that are
nevertheless misleading when compared to
the Gestalt the many complex factors we
need to put together to really
understand whether the use of a drug or
consuming of a food in our diet whether
it is healthy or unhealthy when looking
at our life cycle as a whole like the
vegan may be unaware of the extent to
which he's doing this he may be unaware
that in his approach to cannabis he's
committing exactly the same crimes
exactly the same offenses that he points
the finger at the dairy industry in the
meat industry for committing
like sincerely I'd like to say to you
either take that video down or you know
we have our permission you can upload
this video on your own channel you can
deal with the peer-reviewed sources that
are cited in this video but Mike I hope
your fans send you this link I hope you
get the message I hope you take
seriously the fact that you've told tens
of thousands of people to go ahead and
inflate brain damage on themselves
that's something I would never do Mike
I've been on YouTube before you came on
the scene and remember when your channel
was small yet your first few thousand
viewers of senior ascent to being an
influential voice with great power comes
great responsibility you should take
responsibility for this you should
delete the video you've made or revise
it or make a new video that takes
serious of the fact that marijuana
causes brain damage and that this is now
a thoroughly attested thoroughly proven
fact I banish in all of the scientific
sources used in this video were cited
directly or indirectly in this article
posted to my blog on tumblr about four
years ago it's an article that got a big
reaction at the time and received a lot
of email
very emotional reactions to it because
my fellow vegans did not want to face up
to this shocking but simple fact
including vegans who I knew at the time
were smoking marijuana during pregnancy
and absolutely certainly damaging the
health of their own unborn child quote
vegans generally are people who have
questioned and rejected the premise that
yogurt was essential to their health who
have questioned many things that were
told by parents teachers doctors and
marketing agencies vegans generally are
people who have been willing to question
cultural assumptions of what healthy
means why would it be any harder for us
to question the myths surrounding
cannabis it causes brain damage there is
proof
[Music]
the blue shell